# Spectrally Tuned Bandwidth Selection for Kernel Fuzzy Relational Clustering

This Github repository includes the associated code to reproduce the results of the paper "Spectrally Tuned Bandwidth Selection for Kernel Fuzzy Relational Clustering" by Costa E. & Thompson J. (2026). The repository is organised as follows:

* `real_data`: This directory includes the IS, diabetes, rice, and vehicle data sets as .rds files.
* `results`: This directory includes the results of the simulation studies conducted on both synthetically generated and publicly available data sets. More precisely:
  * `agg_seedxx.rds`: These files include the aggregated results of KFRC on the synthetically generated data sets, with `xx` corresponding to the seed number used to generate the data sets.
  * `agg.rds`: Combined results of all `agg_seedxx.rds` results files.
  * `baseline_fanny.rds`: Results of the FANNY algorithm on synthetically generated data sets.
  * `baseline_fcmmk.rds`: Results of the FCM-MK algorithm on synthetically generated data sets.
  * `baseline_frc.rds`: Results of the FRC algorithm on synthetically generated data sets.
  * `baseline_msfcm.rds`: Results of the MSFCM algorithm on synthetically generated data sets.
  * `baseline_vfcm.rds`: Results of the vFCM algorithm on synthetically generated data sets.
  * `kfrc__dataset__config.rds`: Output files corresponding to the best KFRC performance configuration on each of the publicly available data sets, e.g. `kfrc__IS__crt__logsum__a5.rds` corresponds to the IS data set, the complementary root fuzzifier, the logsum criterion, and anisotropy projection value $\alpha = 5$.
  * `realdata_baselines_agg.rds`: Aggregated results for the baseline methods (FANNY, FCM-MK, FRC, MSFCM, vFCM) on publicly available data sets.
  * `realdata_kfrc_agg.rds`: Aggregated results for KFRC on the publicly available data sets.
  * `weff_df.rds`: Results of synthetic simulation study using KFRC, including the inverse Simpson index $W_\text{eff}$.
* `KFRC_iris_collapse.R`: Script to reproduce Fig. 1.
* `fuzzy_clust_algs.R`: Script including the implementation of 3 fuzzy clustering algorithms: FCM-MK, MSFCM, and vFCM.
* `kpca_viz.R`: Script to reproduce Fig. 3.
* `realdata_baselines.R`: Simulation study script of baseline methods (FANNY, FCM-MK, FRC, MSFCM, vFCM) on publicly available data sets.
* `realdata_kfrc.R`: Simulation study script of KFRC on publicly available data sets.
* `simstudy_baseline.R`: Simulation study script of baseline methods (FANNY, FCM-MK, FRC, MSFCM, vFCM) on synthetically generated data sets.
* `simstudy_kfrc_ex.R`: Simulation study script of KFRC on synthetically generated data sets for a given random seed. Example script sets `seed_val <- 1` - this can be changed to reproduce the results files in the `results` directory.
* `simstudy_plots.R`: Script to reproduce Fig. 2.
* `simstudy_src.R`: Script including the implementation of KFRC with bandwidth selection using the gradient descent algorithm described in the paper. Also includes implementations of FRC for the 4 fuzzifier functions (power, exponential, quadratic, complementary root), a script for calculating the Fuzzy ARI ($\text{FARI}_\text{fuzzy}$), and posterior values for observations generated by a Gaussian Mixture Model (GMM).
* `weff_script.R`: Script used to generate the `results/weff_df.rds` file.

All simulations were conducted using `R 4.5.1`, with the following package versions:

`mvtnorm_1.3-3`, `MixSim_1.1-8`, `MASS_7.3-65`, `cluster_2.1.8.1`, `fclust_2.1.3`, `aricode_1.0.3`, `dplyr_1.1.4`, `gridExtra_2.3`, `RColorBrewer_1.1-3`, `kernlab_0.9-33`, `ggplot2_4.0.1`. 
